--- 
title: Aknowledgements
description: A short look back at Jamoma history
author: [Jamoma, Timothy Place]
created_at: 2011/2/10
tags: [background, API, history]
---

The _Jamoma Foundation_ and _Jamoma DSP_ projects were originally parts of the same project, a project named _TTBlue_.

The first version of _TTBlue_ was originally written in the Autumn of 2003. A large portion of the initial environment was created in the lobby of the Augustin Hotel in Bergen, Norway during series of workshops hosted by "BEK":http://bek.no/. _TTBlue_ was originally authored as the basis of "Electrotap’s":http://electrotap.com/ Tap.Tools 2, a set of plug-ins for "Cycling ’74’s":http://cycling74.com/products/maxmsp/ environment. This in turn formed the basis of the "Hipno":http://cycling74.com/products/hipno/ VST/AU/RTAS plug-ins released by Electrotap and Cycling ’74. 

_TTBlue_ was open-sourced in the Spring of 2005. Its inclusion into the "_Jamoma_":http://jamoma.org/ project, and subsequent transition into the _Jamoma Foundation_ and _Jamoma DSP_, occurred over the course of 2008 and 2009.

As an open source initiative, Jamoma has received valuable input from a large number of contributors in mostly informal ways. 
I can't hope to acknowledge everyone here. Trond Lossius and Dave Watson have both been active participants in the development of _Jamoma Foundation_ and _Jamoma DSP_. Both have added immeasurably to the environment, not just by the addition of code, but by their feedback and critique. Joshua Kit Clayton also provided a valuable critique of _TTBlue_ while we demonstrated Hipno at the Winter 2005 NAMM Show in Anaheim, California. More recently, Tristan Matthews and Nils Peters have been helping to shape the libraries. Théo Delahogue has architected the _NodeLib_, a major component of the _Jamoma Foundation_.

Many aspects of these libraries were first developed by the _Jamoma Modular_ team, including the FunctionLib developed at a Jamoma workshop hosted by "iMal":http://imal.org/. Through its support of _Jamoma_, "GMEA":http://gmea.net/ has supported the development of the Jamoma Foundation and DSP libraries. "BEK":http://bek.no/ sponsored the initial development of _Jamoma Audio Graph_ through the efforts of Trond Lossius while the development of the _Jamoma Graph_ has been funded by _74 Objects_. _McGill University_ sponsored the initial development of _Jamoma Graphics_ through the efforts of Nils Peters.

This document owes its creation in part Trond Lossius, who introduced me to the Not So Short Introduction to \LaTeX which is part of the inspiration for this document. He is also largely responsible for the creation of the ttblue.org website, now part of jamoma.org, both of which are generously hosted by BEK.
